cz_mfd_conventional - Commitizen Plugin for MFD-Conventional Commits

This plugin is designed to enforce conventional commit messages for Marketfuel projects, with additional support for Linear issue IDs.

Features:

Automatic detection of Linear issue IDs (e.g., MFD-12345) from branch names or commit scopes.
Supports standard commit types like "feat," "fix," "refactor," and more.
Ensures commit scopes are correctly formatted, with issue IDs prefixed by "ref."
Generates changelogs based on the conventional commits.
Commit Message Structure:

<type>: Describes the type of change (e.g., "feat," "fix," "docs").
<scope>: Contains the issue ID or the specific area affected by the change.
<subject>: A brief summary of the change.
<body>: (Optional) A more detailed description of the change.
<footer>: (Optional) Additional information, including breaking changes or references to other issues.
Examples:

Basic Fix Commit:
fix(ref MFD-2000): correct minor typos in code

see the issue for details on the typos fixed

ref MFD-2012

Feature Commit with Scope:
feat(ui): add new button component

the new button component allows users to submit forms with a single click

Breaking Change Commit:
refactor(core)!: update API endpoints for better consistency

BREAKING CHANGE: The /old-endpoint has been removed in favor of /new-endpoint.

How It Works:

If your branch is named something like "feature/MFD-1234-add-login," the plugin will automatically extract "MFD-1234" and use it as the scope of your commit.
If no issue ID is found in the branch name, you can manually enter it when prompted, or provide a different scope if necessary.
Best Practices:

Keep commits atomic—each commit should represent a single, logical change.
Use descriptive subjects—keep your commit messages clear and concise.
Document breaking changes—always provide a detailed explanation in the footer when introducing breaking changes.
Installation:
To use this plugin with Commitizen, ensure it is installed in your environment. Configure your .cz.yaml or equivalent configuration file to use cz_mfd_conventional as the Commitizen type.

Example .cz.yaml configuration:
commitizen:
name: cz_mfd_conventional
version: 0.1.0